>> Mike North: So in this course we're
going to be working with a small project
that is the minimum example, or
close to the minimum example of a monorepo
that has some layering and dependencies.
So we're going to start with
everything being together.
It's a simple svelte app
with a node server and
some things that both the server and
the UI need.
And we're going to factor
it out into a monorepo.
We're going to show how we can
automatically link different
packages within the monorepo.
So you can just edit whatever
you need to edit and
those changes take effect immediately.
You can just still treat this.
You get the same benefits of the monolith
despite it being broken up into
a bunch of packages.
We're going to,
towards the end of the course,
get to this benefit of dependency aware
task execution for build lint and testing.
What that means is I touch
a low level dependency.
I want to run only those tests that could
have potentially been affected by my
changes.
Not just the package that I touched,
but the package I touched and
anything that depends on it.
Let's run just those roles or, sorry,
let's lint just that subset of packages.
Or let's test just that
subset of packages.
We're going to explore the idea of
monorepo packages like sometimes some
packages are more coupled than others,
where you might think of there being
some sort of private API between packages,
where sometimes things
are just more intimately entangled
in some cases than others.
And I'll give you some tools where you can
deliberately create those boundaries and
make sure that your TypeScript types
are correct and helpful in cases where
you deliberately want a lot of deep
private access between packages.
And then in other places you can say,
hey, look,
there's this sort of blessed surface for
the package.
In the general case, you should only
be integrating against these points.
We'll also look at automatic
code documentation as well.
How can you have some nice generated docs
that don't require a human to go in and
keep updating things that explain all
the packages in this monorepo project.
They're kept up to date automatically
because they're derived from code comments
and from the types themselves.
So these are some of the tools that
we're going to be exploring today.
We'll use pnpm, which is, in my opinion,
the package manager that you wanna use for
TypeScript monorepos.
Today we'll be using
the latest version of Lerna,
which, behind the scenes it is
leaning on NX for a lot of things.
So we'll start with lerna and
then we'll eject out to nx when we have I
need to do so, we'll get through
the package managers and the build tools.
We'll use API extractor and
documenter to create a very deliberately
controlled API surface for
each package in the monorepo.
It'll only matter for
libraries in this case, but we'll get auto
generated docs and we'll get what's
called a declaration file rollup,
which is the a single DTS file that
represents the whole library and
you'll be able to tag
individual methods and fields,
anything that's exported as internal or
alpha or beta maturity and
you'll get the right roll up generated
depending on whether you're using alpha or
beta features in this library or
you're using the stable version.
We'll talk a little bit about
GitHub code owners if you've ever
used this before at your root
repo level you can have a code
owners file that governs who is
automatic to review a pr and
we'll talk about how to use
that in a monorepo context.
How can you store this same
information in individual packages and
have that sort of synchronized and
pulled up to a root level code owners file
that is purely kind of a build artifact.
Like you don't have to touch it because
the source of truth lies within
each package.
And this gives you a lot of control over
like maybe you have an infrastructure
team that's responsible for
some small set of packages and
then you have other people that should
be reviewing code in other places.
Then finally, even if you're
well experienced with monorepos,
I'm going to walk through a couple
standalone tools that help detect and
address common monorepo pitfalls, like the
quality of each package's package JSON.
Are you missing things in there?
Does each have a homepage?
Are you pointing to the correct place
in a repository on GitHub where you
could see the readme for that package,
not for the whole monorepo.
De duping versions of packages across your
Monorepo Syncpack is a great tool for
that.
If you have 16 versions of TypeScript
across 20 packages in your monorepo,
this is what will help alert you
to that potentially in a quite
automated way where you can just use fix.
It'll consolidate you onto a version that
you can use across the entire workspace.
We'll also work with a library
called knip knip, which is great for
identifying like needless
exports from libraries that at
least within the monorepo,
nobody seems to be consuming, and
it helps to identify unneeded
packages in your package JSON,
like unneeded dependencies
in your package JSON.
And like, why this is important for
monorepos, well,
we're going to end up with
a bunch of package jsons, so
that work like curating your list of
dev dependencies and dependencies.
It's multiplicative now, and
these tools help make sure that
you're not having to go into
each package in your project and
personally pare it down where you
can see that there are things
that nobody seems to be
importing within the package.